Transactions => a collection of operations (reads and writes) that are treated as a single logical operation 
 ATOMICITY ensures the execution complete (either complete or not complete)
 CONSISTENCY the consistency of a data set (integrity)
 ISOLATION whatever you are doing/changes will not affect the other person changes (isolated cube)
 DURABILITY changes are persistence in a non volatile 

Aggregate functions => is a function that performs a calculation on a set of values and returns a single value 
 some aggregate function are: 
  COUNT count 
  SUM calculate the total of a given column 
  MAX calculate highest value in a column
  AVG calculate avarage value in a column 
  MIN calculate the minum value in a column

Group by Clause 
groups rows into summary rows based on column values or expressions. It returns one row for each group and reducs the number of rows in the rest set 

Having clause 
is used with the GROUP BY clause to filter the groups based on a specified condition. 
the HAVING clause allows you to apply a condition to the groups returned by the GROUP BY clause and only include groups that meet the specified condition 

CHECKPOINT QUESTIONS
1. Explain what "DURABILITY" mean in the ACID properties 
2. What is the purpose of the GROUP By clause in SQL
3. Explain the difference between the WHERE and HAVING clause in SQL. When should you use each? 
4. Explain what an aggregate function is and provide at least three examples of aggregate functions used in SQL 

KEY TAKEAWAYS 
1. The GROUP BY clause is used to group rows that have the same values in specified columns into summary rows 
2. The HAVING clause is used to filter the result after the GROUP BY operation 
3. Durability ensures that ince a transaction is committed, its  changes are permanent, even if the system crashes, preserving data integrity 
4. Isolation unsures that multiple transaction can occur concurrently without leading to the inconsistency of the database state 
5. Consistency ensures that a database remains in a valid state before and after a transaction
6. Atomicity simply means that all queries in a transaction must succed for the transaction to succed

mercy yes mercy 
mercy what's going on 